# 1.2 Procedures and the Processes They Generate

A procedure is a pattern for the _local evolution_ of a computational process. It specifies how each stage of the process is built upon the previous stage. We would like to be able to make statements about the overall, or global, behaviour of a process whose local evolution has been specified by a procedure. This is very difficult to do in general, but we can at least try to describe some typical patterns of process evolution.

## 1.2.1 Linear Recursion and Iteration

factorial function:

$$
n! = n 路 (n-1) 路 (n-2) ... 3 路 2 路 1
$$

one way:

```lisp
(define (factorial n)
	(if (= n 1)
		1
		(* n (factorial (- n 1)))))
```

another way:

```Lisp
(define (factorial n)
	(fac-iter 1 1 n))

(define (fac-iter product counter max-count)
	(if (> counter max-count)
		product
		(fac-iter (* counter product) (+ counter 1) max-count)))
```

Consider the first process. The substitution model reveals a shape of expansion followed by contraction, indicated by the arrow in Figure 1.3. The expansion occurs as the process builds up a chain of deferred operations (in this case, a chain of multiplications). The contraction occurs as the operations are actually performed. This type of process, characterized by a chain of deferred operations, is called a _recursive process_.

By contrast, the second process does not grow and shrink. At each step, all we need to keep track of, for any n, are the current values of the variables product, counter, and max-count. We call this an _iterative process_.

In contrasting iteration and recursion, we must be careful not to confuse the notion of a recursive process with the notion of a recursive procedure. When we describe a procedure as recursive, we are referring to the syntactic fact that the procedure definition refers (either directly or indirectly) to the procedure itself. But when we describe a process as following a pattern that is, say, linearly recursive, we are speaking about how the process evolves, not about the syntax of how a procedure is written. It may seem disturbing that we refer to a recursive procedure such as fact-iter as generating an iterative process. However, the process really is iterative: Its state is captured completely by its three state variables, and an interpreter need keep track of only three variables in order to execute the process.

The implementation of Scheme we shall consider in Chapter 5 does not share this defect. It will execute an iterative process in constant space, even if the iterative process is described by a recursive procedure. An implementation with this property is called _tail-recursive_. With a tail-recursive implementation, iteration can be expressed using the ordinary procedure call mechanism, so that special iteration constructs are useful only as syntactic sugar.

## 1.2.2 Tree Recursion

Another common pattern of computation is called _tree recursion_.

Fibonacci: `0 1 1 2 3 5 8 13 21 ...`

The Fibonacci numbers ca be defined by the rule:

$$
Fib(n) =
	\begin{cases}
		0 ,  & \text{if $n = 0$} \\
		1 ,  & \text{if $n = 1$} \\
		Fib(n-1) + Fib(n-2) ,  & \text{otherwise} \\
	\end{cases}
$$

recursion procedure:

```Lisp
(define (fib n)
	(cond ((= n 0) 0)
		  ((= n 1) 1)
		  (else (+ (fib (- n 1))
		  		   (fib (- n 2))))))
```

Consider the pattern of this computation. To compute (fib 5), we compute (fib 4) and (fib 3). To compute (fib 4), we compute (fib 3) and (fib 2). In general, the evolved process looks like a tree, as shown in Figure 1.5. Notice that the branches split into two at each level (except at the bottom); this reflects the fact that the fib procedure calls itself twice each time it is invoked.

This procedure is instructive as a prototypical tree recursion, but it is a terrible way to compute Fibonacci numbers because it does so much redundant computation.

## 1.2.3 Orders of Growth

## 1.2.4 Exponentiation
