# 2.4 Multiple Representations for Abstract Data

In this sections, we will learn how to cope with data that may be represented in different ways by different parts of a program. This requires constructing _generic procedures_-procedures that can operate on data that may be represented in more than one way. Our main technique for building generic procedures will be to work in terms of data objects that have _type tags_, that is, data objects that include explicit information about how they are to be processed. We will also discuss _data-directed_ programming, a powerful and convenient implementation strategy for additively assembing systems with generic operations.

## 2.4.1 Representations for Complex Numbers

This section, we use two plausible representations for complex numbers as ordered pairs: rectangulart form (real part and imaginary part) and polar form (magnitude and angle).

## 2.4.2 Tagged data

One way to view data abstraction is as an application of the "principle of least commitment". If both representations are included in a single system, however, we will need some way to distinguish data in these forms.

## 2.4.3 Data-Directed Programming and Additivity

The general strategy of checking the type of a datum and calling an appropriate procedure is called _dispatching on type_. This is a powerful strategy for obtaining modularity in system design.

The issue underlying both of these weaknesses is that the technique for implementing generic interfaces is not _additive_.

What we need is a means for modularizing the system design even further. This is provided by the programming technique known as _data-directed programming_.

### Message passing

The key idea of data-directed programming is to handle generic operation in programs by dealing explicitly with operation-and-type tables. The style of programming we used in Section 2.4.2 organized the required dispatching on type by having each operation take care of its own dispatching. In effect, this decomposes the operation-and-type table into rows, with each generic operation procedure representing a row of the table.

An alternative implemention strategy is to decompose the table into columns and, instead of using "intelligent operations" that dispatch on data types, to work with "intelligent data objects" that dispatch on operation names. We can do this by arranging things so that a data object, such as a rectangular number, is represented as a procedure that takes as input the required operation name and performs the operation indicated. In such a discipline, make-from-real-imag could be written as

```Scheme
(define (make-from-real-imag x y)
  (define (dispatch op)
    (cond ((eq? op 'real-part) x)
          ((eq? op 'imag-part) y)
          ((eq? op 'magnitude) (sqrt (+ (square x) (square y))))
          ((eq? op 'angle) (atan y x))
          (else (error "Unkown op: MAKE-FROM-REAL-IMAG" op))))
  dispatch)
```

The corresponding _apply-generic_ procedure, which applies a generic operation to an argument, now simply feeds the operation's name to the data object and lets the object do the work.

```Scheme
(define (apply-generic op arg) (arg op))
```

This style of programming is called _message passing_.
